Where are those? I don't know. Some of them I've
cooked up. Yeah, they're lovely.
Now, since you were in the Corps only for a year
before you moved on to West Point, you probably
didn't have a chance to exert much influence as far
as becoming a leader, did you? You didn't have a...
I don't think so, no. In fact, I think your main
objective there was... was make good grades, or
make adequate good grades, and exist, make a
living. Kept through your first year. Do you
remember what you liked and disliked about the
Corps? Oh, I liked the Corps. What was it that you
liked? Well, I don't know, it's hard to say.
This is the first time you were in a military
situation. Yeah, well, I recognize that. But
I would say, primarily at the time, the Corps of
Cadets at Texas A&M was the thing. I mean, to be a
non-member of the Corps, well, there were very few
of them. I would say there was less than 25 who were
day students who were more civilian clothes.
Did you like wearing a uniform for the first time in
your life? Well it was, it was clothing.
And I would say that that
was probably had more effect than anything else is
that you had
you had, I'd say money was something to wear.
Whereas, I think the first suit of clothes that I
had was my graduation suit, and
the rest of
the time I was ready to really dress up. you were
graduating from high school. Not that you didn't
have the warm clothes and the warm, warm jacket and
shoes to wear, but sure. I don't know, I don't, I
don't, at the time it was probably impressive, but
the only thing that, at the time, my being in the
Corps and I could see my home was about I guess 40
miles away, 50 miles, so at that time you could
thumb a ride and you could be home in an hour and a
half and you could get out on the road and you'd be
back to school on the weekend in an hour and a half.
Did you go home a lot on the weekends? Well I would
say probably once a month or something of this
sort. My brother had left home the same year I did.
He stayed home for one year and had Dad out. Then he
went to Texas City and bought out, he was, well in
the upbringing, he was a completely different
kind of individual than I. I was the athletic type.
He was building radios, worked on worked on
watches, this type of thing. And so he went down to
Texas City and well before that, while he was still
in high school, one of my uncles, one of my dad's
brothers gave him a complete set of watch making
tools so he could change crystals and all this type
of thing. And so he did that. while he was still in
high school and then the year he was home while he
also worked on that. And then he went down and
bought this jeweler out which was just a little
hole in the wall and with a room and he had bought a
motorcycle and he used to come by and pick me up on
the motorcycle maybe once every couple of months
and I'd ride double on his motorcycle from there to
Reagan but I didn't that didn't last very long
because we had gravel roads and there's always a
gravel rut and if you hit that rut going too fast and
you got out of it why you really got in messed up with
gravel and if you went too slow why you weaved and
and I think I rode that thing back and forth twice
and I told them I wasn't interested in that anymore
and
Because a motorcycle always ends up on top of both
of us running full speed, throwing gravel all over
the place. But being in the Corps, you could get a
ride anywhere. I mean, you could go to Fort Worth.
Not that I ever went to Fort Worth, but I think I
caught a ride down to Texas City one time and went
down one weekend visiting him. Easy hitchhiking
in the Corps. Oh yeah. What way did the Corps help
you?
Well, I would say that the academics helped me more
than anything else. The academics at A&M? The
academics at A&M. I would say without the
academics at A&M, I'd probably never gotten
through the military academy. Did you find the
academics difficult?
Well, how did it help you? Well,
at Texas A&M in your freshman year, you had
descriptive geometry. Church's descriptive
geometry. At the Military Academy, you have
exactly the same book, same course during your
junior year.
Smith's College Chemistry. It was exactly the
same course that you had same book as you had there
as you have the same thing at the military academy.
Normally not the freshman year, but either your
sophomore or junior year.
English being my weakest subject there, I had very
good courses in English, freshman English, and
then that was my weakest subject at the military
academy. stood in the 300 somewhere in English. So
I had to really work in English to keep getting
found out of the military academy. And had I not
taken the English at Texas A&M, I probably
wouldn't have gotten in the military academy. And
of course, my grades at Texas A&M, they accepted
those on what's called a dog ticket to the military
academy. which means that you don't have to take
the mental exam. And when I reported to Fort Sam
Houston to take the mental exam, well, what really
happened was I went to the registrar when I got this
telegram to an appointment to Westport. I went to
the registrar, and they made up a transcript of my
records and sent them to the superintendent of
military academy. And then a week, ten days, or two
weeks later, I got a form that the military academy
required. So I took that over to the registrar, and
they wouldn't make it out. They wouldn't make it
out anymore. Because they said they already sent
one in, that's where that was at. Well, then we, and
then apparently, and then a month later, I got this
letter saying they were sorry that the form at the,
Texas A&M restaurants, A&M was unacceptable, and
therefore they wouldn't require the form that
they sent to be filled out. Well, I took it over and
they finally sent it out. But when I reported down
at Fort Sam to take the mental exam, I had it first
offered in an appointment to West Point. John
Connolly, an individual after whom John Connolly
Air Force Base of Waco was named, was a principal,
and he was the nephew of Tom Connick. So both of us
were taking the mental exam. Of course, it was very
difficult because you'd been out of high school
for three or four years, four years, history
subjects and dates, and you're just forgotten.
And so while I was taking the mental exam, they got a
wire saying I was excused. So I, based upon my
grades at Texas A&M, I didn't have to take the
written exam, and of course I passed the physical,
and so Tom Cotley, John Cotley, failed the
entrance exam, the mental exam, and so I got the
appointment. So your grades there for one thing,
and of course- They certainly helped you, yeah.
And I would say that the subjects there are more
engineering,
if you know what I mean, than they are at the
Military Academy. Because as I said, the three or
four subjects that I had your very first year, you
have either sophomore or junior year at the
Military Academy, other than English.
Did the Corps in any way, not the academics of A&M,
but did the Corps, being in a military outfit for a
year, did that, do you think that that had any
influence on you being accepted at West Point? No,
I don't think so. No, it's pure and simple an
academic. I think if I'd gone and had the same
grades that I was accredited college by, they
would have been accepted the same way. Tom Kilday,
who was attending St. Edward's University in
Austin, he was accepted on a, because he attended
college there and has done his grades. And also the
fact that he was a football player. And they were
interested in football players just like we are.
Yeah. You were there for You were at A&M for a year,
and after we finish this, we're going to talk about
your West Point experience. But I've often heard
many people who were former students at A&M say
that it's more than an institution of higher
learning, that there's something special about
it. Even though you were only there for a year, did
you get any feeling like that? Oh, I think that...
the free decor of Texas A&M students, I think it
develops with time. I think you, while you're
there, and I think if I had been able to
participate, you know, more into the going to
football games, going to the basketball games, to
participate, you're just you become a lot more
enthusiastic.
At that time Joel Hunt was a big star and if you could
have seen him by you probably been a lot more
impressed than you would if you just could attend.
But I think A college where you have a corps, you do
have a lot of esprit de corps that you just don't
have at a pure and simple civilian college.
Going to George Washington University to get your
master's degree, all you're doing is getting an
education. You're really not developing any
esprit de corps whatsoever.
What did you think about the quality of education
at A&M? Well, I was very impressed at the time of the
quality of education. Well, I think Texas A&M
probably is one of the best mechanical schools in
the United States, although it
doesn't rank with MIT. I think it should, Caltech
or some of those. But I think it should. as far as the
courses they give and the, and how
thorough. In fact, we, Mrs. Heddington and I have
four students at Texas A&M right now, and we're
attending one a junior, one a sophomore, and two
freshmen coming in that we are giving scholarship
for.
from Falls County.
And we just set it up for Texas A&M, because I think
if they go to Texas A&M, they will certainly get a
good education. Sure. OK. Let's start making some
comparisons with West Point. But before we do
that,
can you tell me exactly
We've already started on how you got into West
Point. What were your feelings when you found out
that you were accepted into West Point? Well, it
was very exuberant. I mean, I would say that I was
very, very happy to get there. Really, I went to
West Point because it was free. I mean, I really
didn't go there because it's West Point or the
United States Military Academy. I think my really
main objective of going there was the fact that I
was looking at that stage of getting four years of
college and that was a way of getting it. And you
didn't think about that you had thirty years of
military service that you're going to put in after
you graduate from military academy. Primarily to
economic. Let's start making comparisons then.
You said that A&M was a good academic institution.
How would you compare that with West Point? Well,
I'd say West Point is very regimented. At the time
it was very regimented. More so than A&M? Well, at
A&M you did have a few choices. At West Point you had
no choice. I mean, at the time that I went there, You
took, everybody took exactly the same courses.
And the only time that you deviated from taking the
same course is if you were in the top 5% or something
of this, some percentage. Then instead of taking
final exams, you were given advanced courses like
theory of least squares or something of this sort
that you, in those fields, like if you were real
good in mathematics, very obviously you could
pass the final exam while you got a special course
in something else. But otherwise you took exactly
the same thing You're told exactly what to do every
day, what time to go to bed, what time to get up, how
to fix your bed, how to sweep your room. It's very,
very regimented. Much less freedom than it is. Oh,
yeah. No question about it. What about the
qualities of teacher?
Well.
I'd say both of them are adequate. As far as
architecture is concerned, you remember
Professor Guise, some of the ones that you're
interested in, but as far as who taught you the
various courses and
I mean I don't really remember or wasn't impressed
or what have you. Whereas at the military academy
you had former graduates who had gotten their
master's degrees and who had gone out and had some
experience and had come back to teach. And they
were, some of them were real good, some of them were
I'd say adequate, but I would think that all of them
had exactly the same course to teach. They had
their lesson plans laid out for them and in every
class you did exactly the same thing. The only, see
at West Point the difference, you were given a
grade every week. Right. You were given a grade
from 0 to 3.0. And
every day that you attended class you got a grade.
And on Saturday every week your grade points were
posted. And about once a month while you shifted up
and down the core in classes, based upon your grade
points, so that the ones that made the highest
grade all were congregated in class one. And the
next ones in class two. I mean, in class two, in
class three, in class four, in class five. And so
that your ones that made the first grade were all in
the same classroom.
And I don't know, I'm really far that. I mean, I
think that where you mix everybody up,
why then you have to spend too much time on the
students who are kind of dumb, and not enough time
on the students who were outstanding. I always
like to stay in about the second second class.
Because the ones in the first class, they were
always trying to be number one in the class, number
two in the class, number three in the class. But as
you get down to take off the first 15 people,
then the rest of them were kind of indifferent as to
what the guy next door was making.
So at the military academy I was either in a high
grade or I was in very low grade. In English I was
down in the bottom, in French I was way down in the
bottom.
Well you thought that the, would you say that A&M,
the quality of the teachers or professors that you
had at A&M, versus West Point, would you put those
on par? Would you say that we were better here or
they were better there overall, if we could make a
general statement?
I would say that that one didn't impress me,
actually. Your French professors were at the
military academy and I didn't have any foreign
language, I don't think. The French professors
were Well, I mean, they were a French one.
The ones that I had, Jenner in French, was very
fluent in French. As far as I knew, as far as I was
concerned, he was fluent. The ones in math were
very good. But you were teaching exactly the same
thing. Both institutions had a fairly close
curriculum then. Yeah, I would say that I don't
really remember other than architecture
as to what kind of professors I had. Did you have any
military science when you were at A&M? And I'm sure
you had some at West Point. You must have had quite a
bit at West Point. Did they teach the same type of
course? Yeah, I would say so. Really, at the
military academy, you don't have that much
military science. I mean, you have maybe a two hour
course once a week, or no more than twice a week. And
you just didn't have that much military science
anymore than you had at Texas A&M. they were pretty
well balanced out. What about training, military
training aspect of it? Now you were in the Corps
here, and of course at West Point everybody is, so
what about the training? Well, you're
at the military academy, you're on the front row
I'd say, more than you are at Texas A&M. What do you
mean by that? Well, Path Aid News was always up
there taking pictures and and the marching at West
Point and the parades and it was a kind of glamour
type of thing. Your folks back home every once in a
while could go to Path 8 News at that time and to a
movie and see you on the screen. They might not be
able to recognize you but because you had 1,200
people out there. And whereas
Texas A&M, you just didn't get that kind of
exposure.
Was there any hazing at West Blanton, like the
paddle at A&M? They never touched you. They never
touched you. What about mental hazing? Oh, well,
it was mostly mental hazing, but... Can you give
them an example? Well, they'd make you pull your
chin in, pop your chest out, suck your gut up, and
keep your eyes to the front, and
some little guy, you know, about five feet forward
would come up to the tallest and look your way up and
look up into your, and try to haze it and you'd
almost feel like patting him on the head and say,
just take it easy son, I'll get my chin in. You had
that type of hazing at the dinner table where you
always had to sit on the front part of your chair and
eat
by the squares. You had to pick it up, come up, and
it really wasn't bad. I mean, in Beast Barracks up
there, I think I gained about 15 pounds. Oh, you
did? Oh, yeah. After getting out of Texas A&M and
the studying I did there, when you get on
going to bed at 10 o'clock, getting up at 6, I had
good food, no financial worries. I gained weight.
Normally, you don't. But I thoroughly enjoyed
that restaurant. In fact, I, yeah.
Why don't they, here at A&M, they used to get away
with physical contact as far as hazing Was that
against the rules and regulations at West Point or
why didn't they use that? I'm sure it was against
the rules. They couldn't touch it. Before they
could even pick anything off your string,
anything off your uniform, they'd have to ask your
permission to touch it.
So I would say The fish year at Texas A&M at that time
was a lot more difficult than the plebe year at West
Point. How about marching and other types of
military training? Can you compare that with A&M
and West Point? Well, your marching, see I really
can't compare because I was a day student. At West
Point, while you marched, At Reveille you had a
formation. And then you marched to Mass. And you
marched to class. And so that all your marching was
done that way. You really, and then you had twice a
week or something, military formations where you
marched on the parade ground and every Saturday
you had a parade and review type of thing.
Whereas I didn't march to the mess hall at Texas
A&M. Now maybe they did at the time, I don't know
being a day student. What about the students? You
had student colleagues here, and of course, for
three years you had student colleagues at West
Point. Could you compare them?
Well, as far as I was concerned, they were all about
the same. You had students at the military academy
whose parents had sent them there, because that's
the place to go. I'd say a large percentage of those
washed out, because they really didn't
want to be there in the first place.
But I would say probably 60 or 70% of the people were
in the same boat as I. I mean, they were there to get
an education. They didn't have a lot of money.
Their parents didn't have a lot of money. I
borrowed $300. for a deposit when I went to West
Point. And from the same bank, First National
Bank, and I paid them back after I graduated four
years later, plus all the interest. But I would say
that the caliber of people are, there's really no
difference between the ones that went to Texas A&M
and the ones that went to Military Academy. You
know, I would have thought that the ones who went to
Texas A&M would have been much more rural
backgrounds, probably with less, their parents
having less money and where the ones from West
Point would have more political contacts and
maybe more urban and maybe their parents would
have had more money, or would have maybe been in
more occupations like business, but you didn't
find that true? Well, see, you don't come in
contact with the parents really very much,
because, see, you're from Florida and Texas and
California and Hawaii and the Philippines, and so
you're so far away, you really don't come in
contact with... with the parents very much. Now,
the ones that lived around
West Point in the northeast, the only thing you
remember about them is always bringing up what we
called boodle. I mean, that's cakes and pie. Oh,
sure. And so after somebody's parents were up
there, we'd gather in their rooms and consume all
of this, the sweets that they had brought up. As far
as big...